Now that we have a good understanding of props and state it's time to talk about component lifecycle
methods which tell you things like when the component is first loaded when it's unloaded and when the
component is being rendered again Our objective will be to describe the component lifecycle methods
and to describe use cases for the component lifecycle methods.
First we'll talk about mounting So mounting happens when the component is first rendered in the DOM.
The first step will be the constructor method which we've seen before.
Next component will mount inside your component you can implement component will mount and that will
tell you when the constructor is finished but we haven't quite called render yet.
Then next will be our render call.
And finally component did mount component did mount and be invoked after your component's markup has
been placed in the DOM.
This is after the DOM is loaded.
This is before.
It's also important to note here that the component will mount and the component did mount method are
only called once per the lifetime of a component.
So if you have something that's set up prolate it might make sense to put it in one of these methods.
Next up is unmounting So this is when your component gets taken out of the DOM.
For instance if the component was in an array of elements and then that element got deleted and the
only method here is component will unmount and this is something you might want to use if you need to
clean up something inside of your component.
For example if you started a set interval which we'll see later this might be a good place to cancel
the set interval when the component is unmounted.
Next up is updating.
So this happens whenever set state is called First you'll get component will receive props.
If any of our props have changed then should component update should computer update you can implement
yourself.
And if you return false from this method the component will not render.
So it's a way to short circuit re-act normal render behavior.
This is not something that I recommend using very often only in very special cases when you have to
optimize your code for some reason.
But again don't use this unless you really need to because it can often lead to more problems and solutions.
Next up component will update which will get calls right before the render.
So you can see what Propst and state are about to be updated.
The render method with the new state and new prop's.
And then finally component did update with the previous props and previous state.
This method you could use for something like logging for example if you wanted to log every time you
render one of the method you can use force update force update we'll skip should component update.
Now if you have a shared component update that returns FALSE For whatever reason.
And you know you want to force an update you might use the force update function.
Again this is not a use case that I'd recommend using very often.
Most of the time react does a better job than of deciding when to render something or not.
Leslie I want to say that the re-act docs have a pretty good description of all these lifecycle methods
and potential use cases for using them.
So definitely go check out these re-act docs.
Next up we'll talk about some use cases for these lifecycle methods.